[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If our human body has
ancient wisdom encrypted within,
how can we tap into that
for deep healing and quantum
revelations?
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome back.
Today, we're going to be
talking about our natural human
architecture and
the implications it
might have for reading
quantum information.
I'll start you off with a
quote by Morihei Ueshiba.
He's a Japanese athlete.
He says that "a good
stance and posture reflect
the proper state of mind."
Sounds good.
Sounds a little
flowery, but I aim
to show you that this is
true in a literal sense.
But what is a poor
posture reflect,
and how does that
truly affect us?
We know that in the
developed world,
there are far more
postural issues
than in the undeveloped world,
and these postural issues
lead to things like joint
disease, heart problems,
breathing trouble, poor
circulation, endocrine
and hormone disruption,
digestive problems, headaches,
anxiety, TMJ, prediabetes,
and even vision problems.
In the UK, there are estimates
that 70% of the workforce
suffers from back pain.
In the US, estimates
are roughly 50%
of the population suffers
from back pain likely due
to poor posture.
There is an opioid
epidemic going on
throughout all the
developed countries, and one
of the number one reasons
for being prescribed
an opiate is back pain,
and one of the number
one causes of back
pain is poor posture.
So what if we are
not actually entering
into our highest
and truest potential
simply because of the way we
hold our body and our form?
Now, let's take a look
at form versus function.
So the body that you're
given, the form that you have
is literally the way
that your body is built.
The function is the way
that your form interacts
with your environment.
So let's take a look
at some animals.
You have monkeys
that climb trees.
And you would bet
that these monkeys
were made for that environment.
Everything about their
body says that they
were made to climb these trees.
Now, take a look at a fish.
Their bodies were built for
that aquatic environment.
It's simple to see.
Spiders were made to quietly
creep up walls, spin webs,
and wait for their
food to come to them.
Whereas, bats were built to fly
around in complete darkness,
echolocating their food
so they could fly to it.
And if you take a look at the
human form all the way back
to Leonardo da Vinci's
"Vitruvian Man,"
you'd have to wonder
what kind of environment
are we built for?
What exactly is our function?
And are we harmonious
with our environment?
Well, we know that we're always
acting upon our environment.
So no matter what, we're
always making changes.
Even if we're asleep or
sitting perfectly still,
we're still moving on
a cellular, molecular,
electromagnetic, and
even a conscious level.
In fact, not to get
too trippy on you,
but go ahead and take a look
at your seemingly still hand,
and if your eyes could do what
scientific technology is doing
today, you'd be
able to amplify what
you're seeing 10 billion times.
And that'll get you
down to the atomic scale
where you'll notice
that nothing is still.
Everything is moving
and spiraling.
Then if you were to amplify
it 1 trillion trillion times,
you'll get down to
the quantum scale,
and this is a whole
different ballgame.
Quantum phenomena underlies
the physical world.
You could rightly say
that it is the fabric
that all of our physical
world is built upon.
But it does not seem to have
to obey the time-space rules
that our physical world does.
So how is it that
the basic building
blocks of our physical world
can behave so differently?
Well, let's take a look at
a film called "Inner Worlds,
Outer Worlds" as they address
quantum experiments that are
looking at that very question.
>> International
researchers at CERN,
the European laboratory
for particle physics,
are searching for this field
that extends throughout all
things.
But instead of
looking within, they
look to the outer
physical world.
Researchers at the
CERN laboratory
in Geneva, Switzerland announced
that they had found the Higgs
boson or the "God particle."
The Higgs boson
experiments prove
scientifically that an
invisible energy field
fills the vacuum of space.
CERN's large hadron
collider consists of a ring
17 miles in
circumference in which
two beams of particles
race in opposite directions
converging and smashing together
at nearly the speed of light.
Scientists observe what comes
out of the violent collisions.
The standard model cannot
account for how particles get
their mass.
Everything appears to
be made of vibration,
but there is no
thing being vibrated.
It is as if there has been
an invisible dancer, a shadow
dancing hidden in the
ballet of the universe.
All the other
dancers have always
danced around this
hidden dancer.
We have observed the
choreography of the dance.
But until now, we could
not see that dancer.
>> So what exactly is our
natural human architecture
in relation to this hidden
dancer that we just heard
about?
Have you ever checked out the
album cover of Pink Floyd's
"Dark Side of The Moon?"
It's this pyramid
prism, perfectly cut
so pure white light
enters one side of it,
and then seven different
colors are popping out
the other side of it.
Those seven different colors
are that pure white light
but a different
expression of it.
Just like every single
one of us are different,
we may experience the
same kind of life,
but we express
ourselves differently.
So that pure white light
which is truly everywhere
expresses itself differently
through different prisms.
So we express
ourselves according
to the seven deadly sins
or seven cardinal virtues,
much like those seven colors
coming out of that prison.
But if we truly are much
like a prism, then what
is the mechanism in our body?
Well, let's take a look at
the most likely candidate--
the myofascial system.
The myofascial system
is a catch-all phrase
for all the connective
tissues, all the cartilage,
all the joints,
all the ligaments,
and all of the tissues in
the body that holds our body
and gives it form.
Our fascia allows
our body to move
in all the unique and
myriad ways that it can.
And finally, it's
also set up to be
very much like
fiber-optic technology.
Now, let's take a
look at posture.
What holds us up?
We would call this
natural human architecture
just like we would call a house
or a building-- architecture.
But if you see architecture
where bricks are simply
stacked upon bricks, this is
not how the body operates.
Your bones are not
stacked upon one another.
Your entire fascial
system is actually
pulling your body
up away from gravity
so your joints can receive all
that synovial fluid, nutrients,
and whatever else they need.
So there's not this
ultimate compression
that you might imagine but
actually, a great levity.
And if you look
deeper at fascia,
the way it runs
across the body is not
just chaotic and haphazardly.
It actually runs in many
different trains or tracks
along the body.
Ronelle Wood-- she's
a fascial worker,
which is different than
a massage therapist.
She specifically works with the
fascial component of the body.
And she believes that the fascia
is set up to be fiber optic,
and it transmits
photonic information.
Dr. James Oschman
calls the fascia
a liquid crystalline matrix.
What this sounds like
to me is a bendable form
of a prism that refracts light
according to your posture.
And even researcher and
author Lynne McTaggart
says that the body comes
equipped with light tubes,
and this accounts for
cellular communication.
But none of this would be
understood by modern science
if it weren't for the incredible
work of Dr. Jean-Claude
Guimberteau.
Dr. Jean-Claude Guimberteau
took a look inside the body
with a microscope
to show that fascia
is a fractal
communication mechanism.
It can morph and change due
to the forces of gravity
and the way our body moves.
It sends information
about all of our movements
as well as photonic
information through it
because in his footage that
he showed through his film
"Strolling Under the Skin," it
shows that fascia is perfectly
set up to be fiber optic.
Dr. James Oschman says that
fascia forms the largest system
in the body as it is the system
that touches all other systems.
So for a communication
mechanism in the body,
this is what we would want--
a light-speed communication
mechanism that touches
every system inside the body.
[SOOTHING MUSIC]
There are even this
fascial component
that you heard of earlier--
the microtubules that
are in neurons.
We also have neurons
in the heart,
and microtubules exist there.
We also have neurons in the gut,
So there is a fascial
component that touches
every aspect of our body.
So now, let's take a look
at what this might mean.
Dr. Stuart Hameroff-- he's an
anesthesiologist and a quantum
theorist.
He and his colleague
Sir Roger Penrose
theorized that microtubules
are responsible for waking
consciousness entering into
the Planck scale or the quantum
realm.
Let's take a look at
what Dr. Stuart Hameroff
has to say on an episode called
"The Real What The Bleep."
>> Where does quantum coherence
occur in the brain is I think
what you're asking?
>> Yes.
>> Well, I would
say microtubules.
So if you look
inside nerve cells--
just if you look inside
our body, you see bones,
OK, the skeleton.
But the microtubules are
not only structural support,
they're also the nervous
system of the cell.
They organize things.
They spacially and
temporally organize things.
They transport things.
They seem to be--
>> Little computers of cells?
>> Onboard computers
of the cell.
Exactly.
And each nerve cell is
incredibly complicated.
If you think of a single
cell like a paramecium,
you know, a little
protozoan, it swims around.
It bumps into
something, moves away.
It swims over here.
It finds food.
It avoids predators.
It finds a mate.
It has sex.
It doesn't have any synapses.
It's one cell.
It uses its microtubules
and cytoskeleton
as information processing
to do all these things.
And that's when I read Roger's
book about quantum computing.
And I thought he might
have the mechanism,
but I have the structure.
That microtubules were the
quantum-computing devices,
and that quantum coherence
among the microtubules
throughout neurons
in the brain were
necessary for consciousness.
[SWOOSH]
>> So that's very interesting
about the quantum realm and how
uniquely it behaves.
But does this mean that the
fascial component of the body,
the very thing that gives
our architecture its form,
actually decodes quantum
information and therefore,
universal and
timeless information
through the body at light speed.
If you take a look at some of
the stories of ancient shamans,
stories of them
being able to see
inside the body of
somebody, see their illness
and be able to
address it using means
that are not understood in
our waking consciousness.
These shamans also being able
to walk between the worlds
and bring back information
to this world that's
truly valuable for the tribe.
Well, how did the shamans
enter this other realms
where they would gather
information and bring it back?
Well, Stuart Hameroff says
that psychedelic compounds--
which were used commonly as
sacraments by shamans and other
methods to enter this
very same realm--
he said that these
psychedelic compounds
have a very unique
structure to them.
And their structure allows them
to bind with the microtubules
in the brain.
And what that does
is actually changes
the information processing
of those microtubules.
So the way our neurons
transport information
changes due to
these psychedelics.
Now, if you've ever read
any Aldous Huxley or Huston
Smith where they
talk about opening
the doors of perception,
this is exactly what
a psychedelic or a shamanic
trance sounds like.
The floodgates are opening.
All the information
that typically
goes into our
subconscious mind that
doesn't arrive at our conscious
mind starts opening up,
and we become conscious of
floods of new information
that's always there, but we
typically don't access it.
Now, I want to take
you back in time
to take a look at a Chinese
physician named Hua Tuo--
roughly 120 to 200 AD.
He was an anesthesiologist
much like Stuart Hameroff,
but he was using
cannabis-infused wine.
Now, cannabis is not
a classic psychedelic,
but it does have the
very same structure
as psychedelics do and also
bind with our microtubules
to change the
information processing.
Now, the interesting thing
about this guy, Hua Tuo,
is that he also discovered
several of the meridians
in the body.
If you have studied
traditional Chinese medicine
or have seen charts of the
meridian system in the body,
there are these lines that
run through the body in a very
unique configuration, and
they transport energy.
And the reason for
acupuncture and acupressure
is if there is a blockage at
any one of these nodal points
on that meridian, then
pressure or a needle
is applied directly there.
The needle is twisted so
it binds with the fascia.
And then the person receiving
the treatment breathes,
relaxes, which is
known to actually relax
the fascial system.
Well, if you take a look
back at how the fascia runs
through the body in those
unique configurations,
modern researchers have put
those two charts side by side
and found out that
there is an 80% to 98%
correlation between
those ancient meridians
of the movement of energy and
our modern myofascial system.
This could revolutionize the way
we look at those treatments--
acupuncture and acupressure.
Could they rightly be called
micro myofascial release?
Myofascial release is
a form of body work.
It may look to the untrained
eye like massage therapy,
but it's not.
It's working on adding
pressure to a unique spot
on the fascial train.
Again, these trains run
the length of the body.
And if pressure is
applied at a unique spot,
and the person receiving the
treatment breathes and relaxes,
this will relax the entire
train of fascia along the body.
Which means that
healing just might
be the loosening up of those
tissues allowing for its fiber
optic capacity to
come back so it
can move energy impregnated with
information through the body.
That information has
to do with the trauma
or the sedentary lifestyle
that has caused for that fascia
to become stuck and stiff.
Albert Szent-Gyorgyi-- he is
a biochemist and a Nobel Prize
winner.
He said, "In every culture
and in every medical tradition
before ours, healing was
accomplished by moving energy."
And that's exactly what
we're talking about today.
Because in those
older traditions,
the shamans job was to keep
the health of the tribe.
It was to heal.
So could the shaman, a skilled
traveler of this realm,
not just read the
information there.
Could that shaman actually
influence the information
at the quantum realm?
It's a unique question.
But if we look back to the
double slit experiment showing
how the observer
of the experiment
actually changes the
behavior of the photons
that they're witnessing
meaning everyone, even
those scientists,
their consciousness
was changing quantum
scale phenomena.
So, yes, if a shaman
was highly skilled,
they would be able to augment
or alter quantum information.
And this goes right back to
what Stuart Hameroff was saying.
The quantum realm
is the realm where
you create your own reality.
So there are a bunch of
older modalities of movement,
and every one of them are
truly a spiritual modality.
It's a form of linking
the body and the mind
together with the
breath and over time,
incrementally, building back the
proper way that the body should
move and how the body should
breathe as it's moving
and a good way to calm and
focus the mind so clarity
on our real path in
life will open up.
These modalities like Tai
Chi, yoga, martial arts,
shamanic dance, the
whirling dervishes,
and so on and so forth.
All of this comes from
the ancient world.
But the ancient
world didn't know
about the modern stressors
and the sedentary society
that we live amongst today.
So we need a modern approach.
And by far, my favorite
is Functional Patterns.
Founded by Naudi Aguilar,
Functional Patterns
is not an exercise routine.
I've trained with him.
It's truly working on how our
body integrates with gravity
and becomes harmonious
with whatever environment
we are forced to live within.
And Naudi Aguilar is aptly
coined the MyoHacker.
He's hacking into
the myofascial system
because he believes the most
important aspect of our body
is how supple, how
soft, and how healthy
our fascial system truly is.
Now I want to hand it off to
a man that I truly respect,
that's been through
many years of discipline
with his body and his
mind, being martial arts,
and a spiritual path.
Foster and his wife Kimberly
made the "Thrive" movie
and also the Thrive movement.
Let's take a look at an
episode with Regina Meredith
called Foster Gamble
on the Thrive movement.
>> I'm clear from both my
science and from my spiritual
pursuits that what we
think of as ourselves,
this body or this particular
personality or whatever,
is simply part of an
infinite continuum.
Like you said-- as
above, so below.
And as we learn to clear our
channel, which is basically
just relaxing our body, letting
the emotions flow clearly,
and then both opening
and focusing the mind
simultaneously, gateways open.
And then if you don't
violate the process,
you can ask for guidance in all
different aspects of your life.
And, you know,
most people hearing
this will be going,
yeah, I know that
from my own personal experience.
And I think this is the whole
next frontier is not only
out in space and
the other beings
that we're meeting there
but also in inner space.
And those two are really one
because I think even the outer
space travel and most of our
ET contact is primarily going
on-- as [INAUDIBLE] says--
at simply different
frequency levels.
>> Thank you so much, Foster,
for exactly how you said that.
And that really brings me
back to the original question
that I had for you--
this human architecture,
what is it built for?
What kind of environment
will it thrive in?
What can we be harmonious with?
Well, if you look at the
work of Chris Kresser
and his book called "An
Unconventional Medicine,"
he took a look at genetics
and said that roughly only 5%
of our genes have updated since
hunter-gatherer times meaning
our genes are more
equipped to operate
within the environments,
the natural settings
that our ancestors moved within.
So let's take a look
at natural settings.
All the rich dynamics,
the uneven ground,
the ever-changing
landscape of it,
even the microbes in the
soil that are good for us,
the negative ions in the
air that we're breathing,
we were built for
this environment.
We were built to move
within the natural settings
and the natural
beauty of the Earth.
So I'm going to take you
back to that first statement
that Morihei Ueshiba said.
He said a good
stance and posture
reflect a proper state of mind.
Well, I believe the most proper
state of mind we can have is
in reverence to the earth, this
thing that connects us all,
the reason why we have food
to eat, water to drink,
air to breathe, and
protection around us.
This Earth is the gift of life.
And even Ravi Zacharias said
warship is a posture of life.
So by giving thanks,
by giving our love
and our appreciation to the
very earth that we live upon
may be exactly what our
natural human architecture
was built for.
[NATURE SOUNDS]
So I usually give you guys some
challenges for the upcoming
week.
But today, I'm going to
give you some materials
that you can look into to deepen
your understanding of what
I've been talking about today.
The first is a book by
Naudi Aguilar, the guy
from Functional Patterns.
His book is called
"The Power of Posture,"
and it revolutionized the
way that I look at posture.
The second is Katy Bowman.
Now, she wrote two books--
"Move Your DNA" and
"Movement Matters."
But aside from this,
one of the things
that caught me in a
YouTube video of hers
was showing the importance of
walking barefoot in nature.
It's truly remarkable what
it can do for your spirit,
but it also is amazing how
much rich and nourishing
information floods through the
body when you do this exercise.
And lastly, "Holotropic
Breathing" from Stanislav Grof.
Stanislav Grof was one
of the original people
to start studying LSD and
the effects of psychedelics
on consciousness.
And after five decades of
it, he crafted another way
to enter that same state
simply through breathing.
If you want to understand
more of the quantum realm,
I highly recommend you check
out "Holotropic Breathing"
and learn how to enter the
state with that simple hack--
your breath.
So I invite you to take a walk
in the woods with no shoes on.
Really feel the earth,
connect with nature once more,
and see how that
changes your life.
Do that this week, and I'll
see you next time around
on "Limitless."
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]